Add cookbook for accessing additional_properties (#615)
mozilla/data-docs: src/cookbooks/additional_props.md

# Additional Properties

If some field is present in a valid received [ping](../concepts/terminology.md#ping),
but is not present in the ping's [schema](../concepts/terminology.md#schema),
it doesn't have its own column to be placed into during
[ingestion](../concepts/terminology.md#ingestion).
Instead, those fields remain as raw JSON and are placed in the
`additional_properties` column of the ping's table or view.

This can happen for a variety of usually-temporary problems like:

> - The latest schema hasn't yet been deployed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The latest schema hasn't yet been deployed (see ["What does it mean when a schema deploy is blocked?"](../concepts/pipeline/schemas.html#what-does-it-mean-when-a-schema-deploy-is-blocked))
```

> - There is a bug in sending or receiving data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [mozilla-pipeline-schemas](https://github.com/mozilla-services/mozilla-pipeline-schemas/commit/0a24af0b56b6645906858ed02b20f977a4fb3842) was not updated after a change in the data which was submitted (this shouldn't happen with [Glean](../concepts/glean.md), but can happen with some legacy data, for example the legacy desktop telemetry envionment).
```

Author: Why this commit in particular? (Also, I'd specify "legacy Firefox Desktop telemetry environment")

Reviewer: Eugh, I did not mean to link a specific commit there. Sorry, long day :)

Reviewer: Adjusted the suggestion

Until the problem is fixed, any ingested pings with these
"unknown" data in them will place that data in the `additional_properties` column.
And unless you convince a Data Engineer to backfill,
these rows of the dataset will always have these data in the
`additional_properties` column,
even after the dataset has been updated to add the column.

To access data that's been put into the `additional_properties` column,

> you'll have to parse the JSON.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
you'll have to parse the JSON.
Be aware that when you access the `additional_properties` field, BigQuery has
to read the entire contents, even if you're extracting just a single field.
In the case of `main` pings, `additional_properties` can be quite large, leading
to expensive queries.
```

# Additional Properties

If some field is present in a valid received [ping](../concepts/terminology.md#ping),
but is not present in the ping's [schema](../concepts/terminology.md#schema),
it doesn't have its own column to be placed into during
[ingestion](../concepts/terminology.md#ingestion).
Instead, those fields remain as raw JSON and are placed in the
`additional_properties` column of the ping's table or view.

This can happen for a variety of usually-temporary problems like:

> - The latest schema hasn't yet been deployed (see ["What does it mean when a schema deploy is blocked?"](../concepts/pipeline/schemas.html#what-does-it-mean-when-a-schema-deploy-is-blocked))

Author: ```suggestion
- The latest schema hasn't yet been deployed (see ["What does it mean when a schema deploy is blocked?"](../concepts/pipeline/schemas.md#what-does-it-mean-when-a-schema-deploy-is-blocked))
```

> - [`mozilla-pipeline-schemas`](https://github.com/mozilla-services/mozilla-pipeline-schemas) was not updated after a change in the data which was submitted (this shouldn't happen with [Glean](../concepts/glean.md), but can happen with some legacy data, for example the [legacy Firefox Desktop telemetry environment](https://firefox-source-docs.mozilla.org/toolkit/components/telemetry/data/environment.html)).

Author: ```suggestion
- [`mozilla-pipeline-schemas`](https://github.com/mozilla-services/mozilla-pipeline-schemas) was not updated after a change in the data which was submitted (this shouldn't happen with [Glean](../concepts/terminology.md#glean), but can happen with some legacy data, for example the [legacy Firefox Desktop telemetry environment](https://firefox-source-docs.mozilla.org/toolkit/components/telemetry/data/environment.html)).
```

# Additional Properties

If some field is present in a valid received [ping](../concepts/terminology.md#ping),
but is not present in the ping's [schema](../concepts/terminology.md#schema),
it doesn't have its own column to be placed into during
[ingestion](../concepts/terminology.md#ingestion).
Instead, those fields remain as raw JSON and are placed in the
`additional_properties` column of the ping's table or view.

This can happen for a variety of usually-temporary problems like:

> - The latest schema hasn't yet been deployed (see ["What does it mean when a schema deploy is blocked?"](../concepts/pipeline/schemas.html#what-does-it-mean-when-a-schema-deploy-is-blocked))

Reviewer 3: It is important to note that we do not backfill schema changes. So when the new column gets added, new data will flow there, and the existing query will be wrong.

> - [mozilla-pipeline-schemas](https://github.com/mozilla-services/mozilla-pipeline-schemas) was not updated after a change in the data which was submitted (this shouldn't happen with [Glean](../concepts/glean.md), but can happen with some legacy data, for example the legacy desktop telemetry envionment).

Author: ```suggestion
- [mozilla-pipeline-schemas](https://github.com/mozilla-services/mozilla-pipeline-schemas) was not updated after a change in the data which was submitted (this shouldn't happen with [Glean](../concepts/glean.md), but can happen with some legacy data, for example the legacy Firefox Desktop telemetry environment).
```

> - [mozilla-pipeline-schemas](https://github.com/mozilla-services/mozilla-pipeline-schemas) was not updated after a change in the data which was submitted (this shouldn't happen with [Glean](../concepts/glean.md), but can happen with some legacy data, for example the legacy desktop telemetry envionment).

Reviewer: Thanks for addressing this! It also occurs to me that we could link to a reference on what the telemetry environment is.

```suggestion
- [mozilla-pipeline-schemas](https://github.com/mozilla-services/mozilla-pipeline-schemas) was not updated after a change in the data which was submitted (this shouldn't happen with [Glean](../concepts/glean.md), but can happen with some legacy data, for example the [legacy desktop telemetry environment](https://firefox-source-docs.mozilla.org/toolkit/components/telemetry/data/environment.html)).
```

Author: Can't apply outdated suggestions : |

> - [mozilla-pipeline-schemas](https://github.com/mozilla-services/mozilla-pipeline-schemas) was not updated after a change in the data which was submitted (this shouldn't happen with [Glean](../concepts/glean.md), but can happen with some legacy data, for example the legacy Firefox Desktop telemetry environment).

Author: ```suggestion
- [`mozilla-pipeline-schemas`](https://github.com/mozilla-services/mozilla-pipeline-schemas) was not updated after a change in the data which was submitted (this shouldn't happen with [Glean](../concepts/glean.md), but can happen with some legacy data, for example the [legacy Firefox Desktop telemetry environment](https://firefox-source-docs.mozilla.org/toolkit/components/telemetry/data/environment.html)).
```

Until the problem is fixed, any ingested pings with these
"unknown" data in them will place that data in the `additional_properties` column.

> And unless you convince a Data Engineer to backfill,
> these rows of the dataset will always have these data in the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The rows of this dataset will always have these data in the
```

I'd rather not have people try and convince us to backfill data for them :)
